README.md, before:


# Testing In AdonisJs

Testing in AdonisJs should be natural, simple and intutive enough that even a entry level guy can write tests.

One should be able to do follow

1. Load entire adonisjs app.
2. Run custom code before the test-runner and after the test-runner.
3. Run stuff before the test-suite and after the test-suite
4. Use any service providers.
5. Fake ioc container bindings.
6. Use middleware for testing


## Dummy syntax.

```js
const Runner = use('Test/Runner')

// Applied on all the suites and also re-initiatied for each
// suite since context is passed along.
Runner.trait([''])
```

```js
const Suite = use('Test/Suite')()

Suite.trait('Lucid/AutoRoll')
Suite.trait('Test/Chrome', options)
Suite.traits([{ 'Test/Chrome': options }])

Suite.before(function () {
})

Suite.after(function () {
})

Suite.beforeEach(function () {  
})

Suite.afterEach(function () {
})

Suite.test('sadasd', async (assert, { browser }) => {
  await browser.visit('')
})

Suite.test('sadasd', async (assert, { browser }) => {
    await browser.visit('')
})
```

Each trait will received following to setup lifecycle

```js
function chromeTrait (suiteInstance) { 
    suiteInstance.beforeEach(() => {
    })

    Context.getter('browser', function () {
        return new Browser()
    }, true)
}
```

Also with class

```js
class ChromeTrait {
    static get inject () {

    }

    handle (suiteInstance) {
        suiteInstance.beforeEach(() => {
        })
    }
}
```

In nutshell we have

1. Test Runner - The guy which starts and ends the tests
2. Test Suite - Each suite can have traits, which are called as soon as user calls `test.trait()`
3. Context ( set for each test ) - Each tests has it's own context

Rest all is JAPA and other tools


## Using API Client

```js
const { triat, test } = use('Test/Suite')

trait('Test/ApiClient')

test('test api', ({ assert, client }) => {
  await client.get('/')
})
```

Api client

```js
const supertest = require('supertest')

function (suite) {
}
```



## Folder Structure

```
|__ Functional
|_____ test.spec.js
|__ Unit
|_____ test.spec.js
```

Also one can have `vowFile.js` to define the cli behavior

```js
const cli = use('Test/Cli')

cli.envFile('') // custom env file

cli.filter(function () {
})

cli.grep('custom grep')

cli.unit('') // define path to unit tests
cli.functional('') // define path to functional tests

// Add traits to suites globally
cli.suite('glob pattern', function ({ path, trait }) {
  if (path.endsWith('browser.js')) {
    trait(['Test/Browser'], { driver: 'chrome' })
  }
})
```

Commit message:

docs(readme): add note to readme file
note that readme is scribble playground for now

README.md, after:


# Testing In AdonisJs

> This readme is the scribble board for now. The final readme will be written later

Testing in AdonisJs should be natural, simple and intutive enough that even a entry level guy can write tests.

One should be able to do follow

1. Load entire adonisjs app.
2. Run custom code before the test-runner and after the test-runner.
3. Run stuff before the test-suite and after the test-suite
4. Use any service providers.
5. Fake ioc container bindings.
6. Use middleware for testing


## Dummy syntax.

```js
const Runner = use('Test/Runner')

// Applied on all the suites and also re-initiatied for each
// suite since context is passed along.
Runner.trait([''])
```

```js
const Suite = use('Test/Suite')()

Suite.trait('Lucid/AutoRoll')
Suite.trait('Test/Chrome', options)
Suite.traits([{ 'Test/Chrome': options }])

Suite.before(function () {
})

Suite.after(function () {
})

Suite.beforeEach(function () {  
})

Suite.afterEach(function () {
})

Suite.test('sadasd', async (assert, { browser }) => {
  await browser.visit('')
})

Suite.test('sadasd', async (assert, { browser }) => {
    await browser.visit('')
})
```

Each trait will received following to setup lifecycle

```js
function chromeTrait (suiteInstance) { 
    suiteInstance.beforeEach(() => {
    })

    Context.getter('browser', function () {
        return new Browser()
    }, true)
}
```

Also with class

```js
class ChromeTrait {
    static get inject () {

    }

    handle (suiteInstance) {
        suiteInstance.beforeEach(() => {
        })
    }
}
```

In nutshell we have

1. Test Runner - The guy which starts and ends the tests
2. Test Suite - Each suite can have traits, which are called as soon as user calls `test.trait()`
3. Context ( set for each test ) - Each tests has it's own context

Rest all is JAPA and other tools


## Using API Client

```js
const { triat, test } = use('Test/Suite')

trait('Test/ApiClient')

test('test api', ({ assert, client }) => {
  await client.get('/')
})
```

Api client

```js
const supertest = require('supertest')

function (suite) {
}
```



## Folder Structure

```
|__ Functional
|_____ test.spec.js
|__ Unit
|_____ test.spec.js
```

Also one can have `vowFile.js` to define the cli behavior

```js
const cli = use('Test/Cli')

cli.envFile('') // custom env file

cli.filter(function () {
})

cli.grep('custom grep')

cli.unit('') // define path to unit tests
cli.functional('') // define path to functional tests

// Add traits to suites globally
cli.suite('glob pattern', function ({ path, trait }) {
  if (path.endsWith('browser.js')) {
    trait(['Test/Browser'], { driver: 'chrome' })
  }
})
```
